---
title: "Announcing MetrANOVA"
categories: news
permalink: post-2024-02-27-announcing-metranova.html
tags: [news]
---

**Founding members ESnet, GÉANT, Indiana University, Internet2, and
  Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) seek additional
  participants**

Five of the world’s leading research and education (R&E) networking
organizations have joined forces to form MetrANOVA, a consortium for
Advancing Network Observation, Visualization, and Analysis. Together,
founding members Energy Sciences Network (ESnet), GÉANT, GlobalNOC at
Indiana University, Internet2, and Texas Advanced Computing Center
(TACC) operate and connect a dizzying number of national, regional,
and local R&E networks — yet representing a portion of the
decentralized fabric linking scientific researchers in hundreds of
countries worldwide. The R&E networking community provides a network
of networks, the design and operation of which have historically been
loosely coupled yet coordinated and present some challenges to
overcome.

“To ensure we are designing and operating networks that best serve our
shared purpose — accelerating scientific research — we need a greater
understanding of the whole system,” said Edward Balas, MetrANOVA lead
and head of ESnet’s Measurement & Analysis group. “MetrANOVA was
formed to develop and disseminate common network measurement and
analysis tools, tactics, and techniques. We hope these will help
member organizations and the broader R&E community better understand
the structure, use, and performance of this complex, multidomain
global web by using interoperable software, appropriate data-sharing
techniques, and composable design patterns. Working together will
allow us to do so more sustainably — by reducing duplication of effort
and allowing issues to be identified and resolved more quickly — and
innovatively, by harnessing the creative brain power across our human
networks.”

Network measurement has long been a core competency of the R&E
community, but to do it well requires expertise and technical
capabilities that can be hard to acquire, inhibiting optimal design
and operation of these networks.

“Research is a global undertaking, and it is therefore vital that
researchers wherever they are located have access to data and
resources with the highest possible performance. Only by building and
supporting high-performance research networks can we remove
geographical boundaries to academia. As part of this, being able to
monitor network performance is an essential component of R&E
networking,” said Ivana Golub, Network Development Lead, GÉANT.

The founding consortium members have each developed compelling network
measurement tools, and all founding members have actively contributed
to the perfSONAR consortium, using it to actively measure end-to-end
performance and identify impairments.

“MetrANOVA can potentially realize a vision that the NetSage
measurement and monitoring project has had for more than ten years — a
shared approach that helps raise all the boats," stated Nathaniel
Mendoza, TACC Chief Information Security Officer (CISO). "We're all
looking at the same problem from different viewpoints, and MetrANOVA
has the potential to bring us all together."

While these previous efforts successfully addressed individual
organizations’ measurement challenges and needs, MetrANOVA aspires to
meet the network measurement needs of the whole of the R&E networking
community, building on what members have learned from past
efforts. Additionally, open-source components have proliferated within
the broader industry that enable state-of-the-art network measurement
and analysis, such as Grafana, Kafka, OpenSearch, and PMacct, which
would benefit from close evaluation and recommendation. MetrANOVA will
focus on determining how to create and use a general-purpose,
multi-data-source measurement and analysis environment to improve the
design and operation of R&E networks.

This broad scope is by design. "Over the past few years, all of the
participating organizations have built their own resilient, effective
time series systems, driven by their own particular requirements,
expertise, and use cases, using different balances of internal
development and integration of existing software components," said
David Ripley, Director of Software and Systems Engineering at
GlobalNOC. "MetrANOVA is an opportunity for us to come together,
combine our expertise, see how the network measurement landscape has
shifted, and work collectively to come up with a universal combination
of software components, deployment architectures, and operational
practices that are generic enough to meet common community
requirements and flexible enough to adapt to even the most niche use
cases."

MetrANOVA will be supported by an inclusive participation model that
provides options for both organizations that can commit dedicated
resources and opportunities for those who wish to contribute
individually or on a best-effort basis. The consortium seeks diverse
participants with a range of skills.

“MetrANOVA reflects and reinforces a uniquely R&E community mindset:
We care deeply about the shared value our network fabric provides to
researchers, educators, and learners,” said James Deaton, Internet2
vice president of Network Services. “Through the consortium, we are
eager to work together to reveal greater performance insights with new
cost-effective, common methods for observing, visualizing, and
analyzing. But even beyond development efforts, MetrANOVA is poised to
open doors for meaningful engagement, bringing together new
perspectives to solve long-standing challenges that span network edges
and institutional boundaries.”

To learn more about MetrANOVA, attend the March 5 session,
“Introducing MetrANOVA: A neutral, trusted, and open consortium for
Advancing Network Observation, Visualization, and Analysis,” at the
2024 Internet2 Community Exchange (CommEX24) in Chicago, or its
reprise at the GÉANT-sponsored TNC24 conference on June 12 in Rennes,
France.



## About ESnet

The Energy Sciences Network (ESnet) is a high-performance,
unclassified network built to support and facilitate large-scale
scientific research across America and around the world. Funded by the
U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science and managed by Lawrence
Berkeley National Laboratory, ESnet connects DOE’s national laboratory
system, supercomputing facilities, and major scientific instruments,
as well as peers with more than 270 R&E and commercial networks for
global collaboration on the world’s biggest scientific
challenges. ESnet’s vision is that scientific progress will be
completely unconstrained by the physical location of instruments,
people, computational resources, or data.


## About GÉANT

[GÉANT](https://geant.org/) is the collaboration of European National
Research and Education Networks (NRENs). Together we deliver an
information ecosystem of infrastructure and services to advance
research, education, and innovation on a global scale. The GÉANT
project combines a high-bandwidth, high-capacity network with a
growing range of services. These allow researchers to collaborate,
working together wherever they are located. Together with European
NRENs, GÉANT connects 50 million users in over 10,000 institutions.


## About The GlobalNOC at Indiana University

GlobalNOC provides world-class, carrier-grade support in network
monitoring, engineering, and software development services to the
research, education, government, and public good communities. Since
its inception in 1998, GlobalNOC has grown to support more than 20
networks at global, national, regional, metro, and campus
scales. GlobalNOC’s supported networks include Internet2’s national
R&E network, NOAA’s enterprise networks, International Networks at IU,
and numerous state and local networks.


## About Internet2

Internet2® is a non-profit, member-driven advanced technology
community founded by the nation’s leading higher education
institutions in 1996. Internet2 delivers a diverse portfolio of
technology solutions that leverages, integrates, and amplifies the
strengths of its members and helps support their educational,
research, and community service missions. Internet2’s core
infrastructure components include the nation’s largest and fastest
research and education network that was built to deliver advanced,
customized services that are accessed and secured by the
community-developed trust and identity framework.


## About Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC)

The Texas Advanced Computing Center (TACC) is one of the leading
academic advanced computing centers in the United States. Since its
founding in 2001, TACC has been committed to facilitating open science
research across a robust ecosystem of advanced computing resources,
truly powering discoveries that change the world.
