---
title: "Who Uses MetrANOVA?"
keywords: about
#tags: []
sidebar: home_sidebar
permalink: gtk_whouses.html
toc: true
---

## Users

### Community Leaders

MetrANOVA is an integral part of the cyber-infrastructure for a
scientific facility, campus, laboratory, network provider, or exchange
point.  A component of ESnet's Science DMZ strategy, MetrANOVA
provides crucial information on network performance between
facilities, an area that traditional monitoring solutions cannot
address.  Collaboration is inherently a cross-domain activity, and
ensuring this works for organizational stakeholders means having
MetrANOVA deployed, and used, to provide network reliability
information.


### Network Operators

Ensuring that networks are functioning in an optimal manner is
critical for network engineers.  Traditional passive monitoring tools,
such as SNMP, provide crucial insight into availability of resources
but cannot deliver a notion of end-to-end performance that stretches
past a single domain.  Deploying MetrANOVA in key locations of your
network, such as where demarcations occur with other domains, provides
insight into active traffic patterns and helps to pinpoint trouble
areas.  MetrANOVA is a part of ESnet's Science DMZ strategy, and works
hand in hand with other solutions to facilitate friction free
scientific network use.

### Network Users

Networks are critical part of world, and most people interact with
them on a daily basis, perhaps without realizing or caring about lower
level details.  If problems are experienced, e.g. expectations of
speed or quality are not realized, we often "blame the network" for
not behaving as it should.  MetrANOVA gives visibility into network
performance, and helps to isolate where "slowness" can be found, and
helps to find and amicable solution for the benefit of all.


### Virtual Organizations

Organized activities between distributed groups of users rely on
stable, well maintained, network infrastructure.  Groupings of
scientists, performers, or policy makers, have a critical reliance on
network infrastructure to facilitate knowledge transfer, audio and
video transmission, or real time data mobility.  Virtual Organizations
(VOs) using MetrANOVA have invested time and effort to create
meaningful simulations of network activities.  With this data, they
can communicate with providers to ensure that things are operating as
they would expect, or judge if certain activities will or will not be
possible.  MetrANOVA provides deeper insight into network use cases
than is possible with traditional monitoring tools.


### Software & Service Developers

MetrANOVA is middle-ware between network monitoring tools and higher
level services such as visualizations and workflow managers.  Using
MetrANOVA APIs, it is possible to unlock data gathered from 1000s of
networks, and design more intelligent "above the network" services.
Developers of lower level measurement and monitoring tools can use
similar APIs to facilitate the deployment, sharing, and location of
new products.


### Network Researchers

MetrANOVA data, gathered from numerous locations around the world, can
provide untapped knowledge related to the performance of networks.
Using a set of APIs, it is possible to retrieve and study this data,
further advancing the understanding of computer and information
sciences.


## Finding MetrANOVA Hosts


MetrANOVA tools are deployed on over 2,000 [registered
hosts](http://stats.es.net/ServicesDirectory) in over 300 top-level
domains and more than 1,000 organizations around the world.  Based on
discussions with the user base, it is believed that there are at least
that many private, unregistered MetrANOVA installations.

{% include image.html file="gtk/whouses/ps-worldwide.png"
   alt="MetrANOVA worldwide installations"
   caption="Image Updated February, 2020" %}